We will analyze the case of the
PINADA from the perspective of
the Blue Ocean Strategy.
Well, what is clear is that the PINADA
has a lot of Blue Ocean, it meets
all the criteria, because we talked
about non-customers, creates
much more value, etc.
How do you create more value?
Well, I'm sure you're already
able to identify it, because
Iker has told us, incorporated
a lot of services of all kinds
that are within the neighborhood,
incorporates education,
services of all kinds
of mobility, cost savings, etc.
But what I'm going to go to now
is a very important concept, which
is value innovation.
To create a Blue Ocean it is
not just about offering more value,
you also have to reduce
the costs of the company a lot.
And it's something that you may
have overlooked, but it's that the
cost savings in the PINADA are bestial
and you have told us.
He told us the following, he told
us that the value chain within
the sector is usually the next,
there is a promoter who buys the
soil, urbanizes it, etc.,
and then in many cases it is
another promoter who sells housing.
The point is that when housing
in the market is usually
urbanized, that investment
has already been made.
And he changes this equation, and what
he does is, before urbanizing the neighborhood,
incorporate already in the creation
process customers.
What he has achieved, he has
told us, is to reduce to a tenth
the needs of equity, that is,
of own funds that he has
to contribute.
Therefore, value innovation is
bestial because it can increase
the value perceived by customers
by incorporating them into the
co-creation of all that neighborhood,
all its space, all that community
and reduce, fix, in a 90%
the needs of that investment
in own funds.
Let us look at it now from
the value curve perspective so
that we can see how this particular
movement affects the value curve.
And in the next class what we
will do is to analyze in more
detail what are the competitive
factors that PINADA incorporates
and which makes it
increase the value through,
as we saw services, etc.
We will do a quick analysis of
the competitive factors in the
real estate promotion sector.
We have the price, we have the
location, maybe the location
is the most important because the
qualities, the price, etc. are
usually determined by the location
and in addition the price of
the soil that depends on the location
is a very determining factor
of the cost.
Quality, the variety of types,
the configuration you allow customers
and here what we have is urbanization,
that is, the fact that it is
already urbanized, that
it is a finished product
in terms of urbanization.
Well, I have incorporated this factor
because it really is the key
in this case of the innovation
in value of the PINADA.
What the PINADA does is reduce the
investment very much or eliminate
it directly the investment in
urbanization because it goes to the
market without having urbanized
the neighborhood and what allows
is to increase the configuration
process very much not only of
the housing but of the whole space,
of the whole neighborhood, of
the organization, etc.
He speaks of co-creation so
as we see the value curve is totally
different and it gets to increase
value much by making partisans
in the co-creation process that
has been shown to increase value
by simply by the demand
it is having and reduce
the cost by going out to
the market in a phase of
the previous value chain
which helps to reduce much
the needs of investment
in equity funds.